README.md, before:

## Benjamin Craven

I am a former solicitor previously working in a global law firm and then at a top accountancy firm. Before qualifying as a solicitor, I wrote online case summaries for Thomson Reuters.

I decided to change career after reading that lawyers could make good coders ([Quit Law and Learn to Code by William Ha](http://quitlawandcode.com/)). I started with Codeacademy before attending a weekend course in HTML and CSS. This fed my curiosity and in February 2017 I enrolled with [Makers Academy](http://www.makersacademy.com/), a full-time 16 week software development bootcamp.

The course has been awesome and time has really flown. I particularly like working with Ruby and take great pleasure in writing succinct, readable code. I am excited to start work doing something I enjoy and am looking for a back-end or full-stack role in an environment, where I can continue to develop and improve while adding value.

**Technical Skills:** Ruby, Rails, Sinatra, RSpec, Capybara, HTML, HTML5 Canvas, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Jasmine, PostgreSQL

**Behavioural Skills:** XP values, TDD, Agile, debugging, pair programming, whole-team projects, code reviews

## Projects

For a complete list, please see my [Github](https://github.com/bdcraven).

| Project	   | Description	| Technologies |
| ---------- | ------------ | ------------ |
| [Instagram](https://github.com/BDCraven/instagram-challenge)  | A solo weekend challenge to build an Instagram clone using Ruby on Rails. I had only 5 days of very limited experience with Rails when I started this project but I was able to implement functionality such as users, likes and comments. I found the speed and simplicity with which Rails can create web applications very satisfying. See on Heroku, [here](https://bensinstagram.herokuapp.com/)  | Ruby/Rails, Rspec, Postgres, Devise, Paperclip |
| [PacMean](https://github.com/BDCraven/pacmean)   |  A short four-day project working in a team of 5 to build a static 2d game. I worked on movement, collision and styling. It was really fun learning how to get something to move around the screen and interact with objects. See game on Github (warning: plays sound on opening), [here](https://paulmillen.github.io/pacmean/) | Javascript, HTML5 Canvas, Jasmine |
| [Bowling Challenge](https://github.com/BDCraven/bowling-challenge) | A solo weekend challenge to make a bowling score app in Javascript. We had two weekends to complete the back-end and front-end. Despite illness I completed the back-end logic and put together a user interface. I enjoyed working with Javascript and getting my head round the complex bowling score algorithm. | Javascript, Jasmine, HTML, CSS |
| [Makersbnb](https://github.com/BDCraven/makersbnb) | A week long project to create an Airbnb clone in a team of 4. I worked on styling, user sign up and the database. I particularly enjoyed working on the database interactions and relationships. See on Heroku, [here](http://piggybnb.herokuapp.com/listings) | Ruby, Rspec, Sinatra, Capybara, DataMapper, Postgres |

## Skills

#### Teamwork

I am naturally personable and flexible in my dealings with other people. I work well both in teams and individually. Every day at Makers Academy we pair program with someone different. In a group I am good at keeping the team focussed on the main task. With Pacmean I encouraged everyone to stay focussed on the MVP and wrote the Trello tickets.

#### Attention to detail

I have a keen eye for detail which has been developed from working as a lawyer. It is something which helps to ensure that I closely monitor code to ensure it is free from typos and missing content.

#### Fast learner

Working as a lawyer I had to quickly understand complex legal and business specific issues, often in an extremely high pressure environment. In week 9 of the course, working in a group of 5, I learnt the basics of HTML5 Canvas and used it to build a PacMan clone in less than three days.

#### Research skills/analytical approach

I have a careful and thorough approach to research. In my last weeks as a lawyer I researched 200 of the firm's suppliers. The work will be instrumental in forming the basis of the firm’s requirement to publish a statement later this year.

#### Communication

As a cases editor for a legal website I learnt to draft succinct case summaries to tight deadlines. While in private practice I drafted articles for external publications and client newsletters such as this article on copyright protection for software developers ([see here](http://www.mondaq.co.uk/uk/x/181208/Copyright/SAS+No+Copyright+SOS+For+Software+Developers "Mondaq Article")).

## Education

#### Makers Academy (Jun '17 to Sep '17)

- Commitment to best practices and delivering watertight code
- Agile methodologies
- Pair programming
- OOP, TDD, SOLID
- Ruby, Rails, Sinatra, RSpec, Capybara, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Jasmine, PostgreSQL


#### College of Law (Sep ’05 to Jun ’06)

-	Legal Practice Course (Commercial Pathway)
-	Commendation

#### SOAS – University of London (Sep ’02 to Jun 05)

-	Law LLB (Hons)
-	2.1

#### ACCESS to Higher Education (Sep ’01 to Jun ’02)

- University entrance course with Psychology, History and Sociology
-	71%

## Experience

**RSM (formerly known as Baker Tilly)** (Sep ‘14 to Apr ‘17)    
*Legal Counsel*  

**Clyde & Co LLP (an international law firm)** (Mar ‘12 to Aug ‘14)    
*Solicitor*

**Clyde & Co LLP** (Mar ‘10 to Mar ‘12)    
*Trainee Solicitor*

**Barlow Lyde & Gilbert LLP (now known as Clyde & Co LLP)** (Apr ‘07 to Dec ‘09)    
*Professional Support Paralegal*

**Thomson Reuters (Lawtel/Westlaw)** (Sep ‘06 to Apr ‘07)    
*Cases Editor*

## Interests

- Reading	-	I particularly enjoy historical fiction and sci-fi.
- Sport	-	health and fitness is important to me and I like to exercise regularly.
- Martial Arts	- have practised various styles from judo to Muay Thai.
- Computer games - when I can find some time.

Commit message:

Updated with details of Commandos app

README.md, after:

## Benjamin Craven

I am a former solicitor previously working in a global law firm and then at a top accountancy firm. Before qualifying as a solicitor, I wrote online case summaries for Thomson Reuters.

I decided to change career after reading that lawyers could make good coders ([Quit Law and Learn to Code by William Ha](http://quitlawandcode.com/)). I started with Codeacademy before attending a weekend course in HTML and CSS. This fed my curiosity and in February 2017 I enrolled with [Makers Academy](http://www.makersacademy.com/), a full-time 16 week software development bootcamp.

The course has been awesome and time has really flown. I particularly like working with Ruby and take great pleasure in writing succinct, readable code. I am excited to start work doing something I enjoy and am looking for a back-end or full-stack role in an environment, where I can continue to develop and improve while adding value.

**Technical Skills:** Ruby, Rails, Sinatra, RSpec, Capybara, HTML, HTML5 Canvas, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Jasmine, PostgreSQL

**Behavioural Skills:** XP values, TDD, Agile, debugging, pair programming, whole-team projects, code reviews

## Projects

For a complete list, please see my [Github](https://github.com/bdcraven).

| Project	   | Description	| Technologies |
| ---------- | ------------ | ------------ |
| [Commandos](https://github.com/BDCraven/commandos) | A unique command line tool and learning aid that displays relevant tips as the terminal is used. Developed by a group of 5 Makers' students over two weeks as the final project. I am proud of this project as it was a Makers Academy first, the concept was my idea and I solved two of the key blockers to its success, namely: how to run the app in the command line without interfering with the use of the terminal; and how to monitor the commands typed into the terminal. Can be installed [here](https://github.com/BDCraven/commandos/blob/master/doc/auto_install.md) | Ruby, Rspec, Bash |
| [Instagram](https://github.com/BDCraven/instagram-challenge)  | A solo weekend challenge to build an Instagram clone using Ruby on Rails. I had only 5 days of very limited experience with Rails when I started this project but I was able to implement functionality such as users, likes and comments. I found the speed and simplicity with which Rails can create web applications very satisfying. See on Heroku, [here](https://bensinstagram.herokuapp.com/)  | Ruby/Rails, Rspec, Postgres, Devise, Paperclip |
| [PacMean](https://github.com/BDCraven/pacmean)   |  A short four-day project working in a team of 5 to build a static 2d game. I worked in pairs on movement, collision and styling. It was really fun learning how to get something to move around the screen and interact with objects. See game on Github (warning: plays sound on opening), [here](https://paulmillen.github.io/pacmean/) | Javascript, HTML5 Canvas, Jasmine |
| [Bowling Challenge](https://github.com/BDCraven/bowling-challenge) | A solo weekend challenge to make a bowling score app in Javascript. We had two weekends to complete the back-end and front-end. Despite illness I completed the back-end logic and put together a user interface. I enjoyed working with Javascript and getting my head round the complex bowling score algorithm. | Javascript, Jasmine, HTML, CSS |
| [Makersbnb](https://github.com/BDCraven/makersbnb) | A week long project to create an Airbnb clone in a team of 4. I worked on styling, user sign up and the database. I particularly enjoyed working on the database interactions and relationships. See on Heroku, [here](http://piggybnb.herokuapp.com/listings) | Ruby, Rspec, Sinatra, Capybara, DataMapper, Postgres |

## Skills

#### Teamwork

I am naturally personable and flexible in my dealings with other people. I work well both in teams and individually. Every day at Makers Academy we pair program with someone different. In a group I am good at keeping the team focussed on the main task. With Pacmean I encouraged everyone to stay focussed on the MVP and wrote the Trello tickets.

#### Attention to detail

I have a keen eye for detail which has been developed from working as a lawyer. It is something which helps to ensure that I closely monitor code to ensure it is free from typos and missing content.

#### Fast learner

Working as a lawyer I had to quickly understand complex legal and business specific issues, often in an extremely high pressure environment. In week 9 of the course, working in a group of 5, I learnt the basics of HTML5 Canvas and we used it to build a PacMan clone in less than three days.

#### Research skills/analytical approach

I have a careful and thorough approach to research. In my last weeks as a lawyer I researched 200 of the firm's suppliers. The work will be instrumental in forming the basis of the firm’s requirement to publish a statement later this year.

#### Communication

As a cases editor for a legal website I learnt to draft succinct case summaries to tight deadlines. While in private practice I drafted articles for external publications and client newsletters such as this article on copyright protection for software developers ([see here](http://www.mondaq.co.uk/uk/x/181208/Copyright/SAS+No+Copyright+SOS+For+Software+Developers "Mondaq Article")).

## Education

#### Makers Academy (Jun '17 to Sep '17)

- Commitment to best practices and delivering watertight code
- Agile methodologies
- Pair programming
- OOP, TDD, SOLID
- Ruby, Rails, Sinatra, RSpec, Capybara, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Jasmine, PostgreSQL


#### College of Law (Sep ’05 to Jun ’06)

-	Legal Practice Course (Commercial Pathway)
-	Commendation

#### SOAS – University of London (Sep ’02 to Jun 05)

-	Law LLB (Hons)
-	2.1

#### ACCESS to Higher Education (Sep ’01 to Jun ’02)

- University entrance course with Psychology, History and Sociology
-	71%

## Experience

**RSM (formerly known as Baker Tilly)** (Sep ‘14 to Apr ‘17)    
*Legal Counsel*  

**Clyde & Co LLP (an international law firm)** (Mar ‘12 to Aug ‘14)    
*Solicitor*

**Clyde & Co LLP** (Mar ‘10 to Mar ‘12)    
*Trainee Solicitor*

**Barlow Lyde & Gilbert LLP (now known as Clyde & Co LLP)** (Apr ‘07 to Dec ‘09)    
*Professional Support Paralegal*

**Thomson Reuters (Lawtel/Westlaw)** (Sep ‘06 to Apr ‘07)    
*Cases Editor*

## Interests

- Reading	-	I particularly enjoy historical fiction and sci-fi.
- Sport	-	health and fitness is important to me and I like to exercise regularly.
- Martial Arts	- have practised various styles from judo to Muay Thai.
- Computer games - when I can find some time.
